Research decoupling of Fedora CI (#224)
packit/research: research/integrations/fedora-ci/deployment-move.md

---
title: Decoupling Fedora CI deployment from Packit Service
authors: lbarcziova
---

Related links:

- [issue](https://github.com/packit/packit-service/issues/2737)

This research describes requirements and plan to decouple Fedora CI-specific worker functionality from
the [Packit Service repository](https://github.com/packit/packit-service) and deploy it as a separate, independent service.
This will improve maintainability, scalability, and make the deployment within Fedora infrastructure easier.

## Code

- create the new repo (`https://github.com/packit/fedora-ci`?) structure, something like this:

```
fedora-ci/
├── fedora_ci/
│   ├── handlers/      # Fedora CI handlers
│   ├── helpers/       # Helper classes like FedoraCIHelper
│   ├── checker/       # Checker classes
│   ├── jobs.py        # Job processing logic
│   └── tasks.py       # Celery tasks
├── tests/

```

- code migration:

>   - identify and move all Fedora CI-related worker functionality from packit-service to the new repository; this concerns jobs that do not depend on a repo having Packit configuration in the repository

Reviewer: I am probably missing something here: if events will stay in packit-service, and packit-service will import from fedora-ci but fedora-ci would need events in packit-service... I don't think we can make this work?

>   - identify and move all Fedora CI-related worker functionality from packit-service to the new repository; this concerns jobs that do not depend on a repo having Packit configuration in the repository

Author: > and packit-service will import from fedora-ci

do you mean this just for the "importing" solution for the transition period? That might be a good point. Regarding the transition, I am more inclined to trying minimise the time of transition and the code changes rather.

>   - identify and move all Fedora CI-related worker functionality from packit-service to the new repository; this concerns jobs that do not depend on a repo having Packit configuration in the repository

Author: @majamassarini yes I see your point now and I agree. And it might still not even really be "quick" nevertheless. Let's discuss more tomorrow.

  - set up tests and CI
  - create files needed for deployment: `run_worker.sh`, Containerfile, docker-compose file, etc.
- remove the moved code from the `packit-service` repo
  (this should be done after the code from new repo is deployed)

### Implementation changes during the transition period

- changes only to the new repo, without deploying
  - this would mean for few weeks the changes wouldn't take effect in the old deployment,
    and might cause some bugs landing when the new deployment happens which might be harder to investigate (if there are a lot of new changes)
  - old deployment might continue to run with known bugs
- changes to both repos
  - this involves duplicated work, and might be prone to errors (e.g. forgetting to apply a change to one repo)
  - first changing the code in old repo, and then applying the same to the new one
- importing the code from new repo

  - cleaner transition
  - requires more initial effort and might be more complex to set up

- in any case, we could try to minimize the new features and focus only on bug fixing during this time

## DB and API

- schema same, empty tables

> - do we want to migrate the data from the current deployment?

Reviewer 2: I thought we already agreed not to do data migration.

> - do we want to migrate the data from the current deployment?

Reviewer 3: Doesn't this directly affect **only** the dashboard?

---
title: Decoupling Fedora CI deployment from Packit Service
authors: lbarcziova
---

Related links:

- [issue](https://github.com/packit/packit-service/issues/2737)

This research describes requirements and plan to decouple Fedora CI-specific worker functionality from
the [Packit Service repository](https://github.com/packit/packit-service) and deploy it as a separate, independent service.
This will improve maintainability, scalability, and make the deployment within Fedora infrastructure easier.

## Code

> - create the new repo (`https://github.com/packit/fedora-ci`?) structure, something like this:

Reviewer 3: I'd probably prefer more explicit, something like `fedora-ci-worker`

```
fedora-ci/
├── fedora_ci/
│   ├── handlers/      # Fedora CI handlers
│   ├── helpers/       # Helper classes like FedoraCIHelper
│   ├── checker/       # Checker classes
│   ├── jobs.py        # Job processing logic
│   └── tasks.py       # Celery tasks
├── tests/

```

- code migration:
  - identify and move all Fedora CI-related worker functionality from packit-service to the new repository; this concerns jobs that do not depend on a repo having Packit configuration in the repository
  - set up tests and CI

>   - create files needed for deployment: `run_worker.sh`, Containerfile, docker-compose file, etc.

Reviewer 3: > [!NOTE]
> Time to move on to `podman-compose`, I hate the complaints in shell each time I forget to pass `COMPOSE`

- remove the moved code from the `packit-service` repo
  (this should be done after the code from new repo is deployed)
- needed changes:

>   - once there is separate dashboard page, change the URL paths in the code

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - once there is a separate dashboard page, change the URL paths in the code
```

also should be just change in the config, afaik

Author: probably depends on the dashboard changes implementation, but I assume if we go with 1 instance, there might be some new URL subpath

### Implementation changes during the transition period

- changes only to the new repo, without deploying
  - this would mean for few weeks the changes wouldn't take effect in the old deployment,

>     and might cause some bugs landing when the new deployment happens which might be harder to investigate (if there are a lot of new changes)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    and might cause some bugs landing when the new deployment happens which might be harder to investigate (if there are lots of new changes)
```

```suggestion
    and might cause some bugs landing when the new deployment happens which might be harder to investigate (if there is a lot of new changes)
```

pick one

- importing the code from new repo

  - cleaner transition
  - requires more initial effort and might be more complex to set up
  - how to implement:
    - git submodule - directly link the new repository as a subdirectory in the old one
    - open to other suggestions

- in any case, we could try to minimize the new features and focus only on bug fixing during this time

## DB and API

- schema same, empty tables
- do we want to migrate the data from the current deployment?
- API at e.g. `prod.fedora-ci.packit.dev/api`

## Dashboard

- keeping one instance or having 2
  - 1 instance: we can use [`Context selector`](https://www.patternfly.org/components/menus/context-selector/design-guidelines) like OpenShift does
    - using different backends
    - we agreed we prefer this solution
  - 2 instances:
    - implementation wise this would require more changes
- to consider: this might be also required to be deployed in Fedora infra
  - dashboard deployment is quite straightforward, shouldn't be an issue

## Identity

- we probably want a new identity (or 2, both for stg and prod) on `src.fedoraproject.org` to be set up

> - current Fedora CI user (`releng-bot`) is in these groups:

Reviewer 3: Is it used only for Fedora CI?
